When it comes to styling a list we of course can style both the list items and all the while the list
itself.
So let's start with the items.
And here I'll actually cut that mark up here so to say so that J has X code for item and I'll add a
new function outside of the component function because we don't really need anything from inside the
component and I'll just named as render list item the name is up to you.
It's a function and dysfunction in the end should return some J is X code here.
So it should return this j as X code here and to work correctly it of course needs to get let's say
our our value which we want to output.
So you're all that use the value as a key and output value here between the text tax and now we can
use render list item down there where we call map.
And here while there I simply want to execute render list item for every item we're mapping and a forward
guest to that as a value in a render list item.
Now if we do that we should see the same result as before.
So nothing too fancy here but now we have a leaner markup down there leaner.
J is X code down there and have our list item j has X code here.
Now we can style this and of course I want to style my view here for this I'll add a style here from
the style sheet which I'll name list in there.
I actually now want to have two text items and one should be the number of the round and the second
should be the value.
So here I need an additional argument I need to value but also the number off the round or NUM of round
as I name it here.
And I want to output does dynamically here.
Maybe with this hash symbol in front of it just for stylistic reasons.
So now we have these two texts in this list here and there.
I actually don't want to use the text but the body text so did I have my my default text styling.
So for Dad let's import body text from components body text and use body text instead of the normal
text here in our list item with Dad we're using the right fund.
And now let's add dead list object to our style sheet so that we can style the list item actually.
This should be called list item therefore and not list.
So let's add list item to the style sheet now like this.
And now of course you can style is in whatever way you want.
I will style it in a relatively easy way here just give it a border color of let's say black or maybe
just slight grayish color here a padding in all directions of let's say 15 to have some spacing margin
on the vertical axis of 10.
So did we have some spacing between the list items and they don't sit right next to each other a background
color of white maybe.
And of course you can use different colors here if you want to.
Now that's a start.
Now when we're setting a border color we also need to set up border with here though otherwise we won't
see a border.
And I'll set this to one and very important I want to have these two text components in my view sit
next to each other and not above each other which would be the default because a view uses flex blocks
and uses a default flex direction of column to have the item sit next to each other on the horizontal
axis we add flex direction row here just like this.
With that if we safeties and the app rebuilds let's give it a try and see how that looks like.
Yeah that looks okay ish but there still is room for improvement.
For example I want to set a width on that list item to make sure that it's not just as wide as its content
needs it to be but as wide as well as we tell it now to add a width you can add with heater to list
item.
But if we do that and set this to let's say 80 percent you'll actually see that this behaves not in
the way you want it to behave right.
So this does not look right.
Now the content is somehow moved but the the item itself is certainly not wider to style a list properly.
The best way is to simply wrap it into a view and then styled as view.
So here we can add a view.
Give it a style of let's say list.
So here I'm referring to starts list and at this list object to our style sheet now like this.
And on this list we can now set a width of 80 percent and get rid of the width here on the list item.
If we do this with this wrapping view you now see the list items have the correct look and that's just
something to be aware of.
If you want to control the height or the width of your list of your scroll view then don't add the style
to the list items.
Also don't add it necessarily directly to the scroll view because of how it is works internally but
instead simply wrap a view around the scroll view where you set that desired width and height.
Now what you'll notice is dead on the list item it would be nice if we had the round number being all
put there and then had some spacing between the round number and our actual guests and to achieve this
for one we need to set a style here on list item.
We can set justified content which controls how the content of this view is laid out along the main
axis which reflects direction as the horizontal axis and they are all use space around to distribute
available free space around our text items here and now to all the output the number of the round which
we expect as an argument here in render list item we can go down to our map function and there we actually
do get a second argument in this function which map calls automatically and that's the index of the
item we're all putting.
So we could forward that index here to render list item or index plus 1 since it will start at 0 and
we probably want to print one for the first round instead of 0.
Now with that out of the way if we add this now it is looks a bit better and maybe we actually switch
does look here from space around to space between I think that looks nicer but before I safe does an
update this you will also notice that one issue you have with that is that the round number is not actually
correct.
The first round is the bottom most round because we add new rounds at the beginning of the list.
Therefore the index is not the right measure for the root number because the index is always well 0
or if we add 1 it's 1 for the first list item.
But the first list item is actually not our first round.
Instead since we add new rounds as the first list item the first list item is our latest round and certainly
not the first one.
So to fix that what we can do is here in a render list items instead of using the index we can of course
use our past guesses list here and get the length of that list and then deduct the index from that.
And that gives us actually the correct round number for a given list item.
So now if we do that and we restart this now we see round number one is to guess seven and that stays
number one if we add a number of guests.
And now this seems to work correctly here.
You will also see that as soon as we exceed our boundaries here of course we can scroll the list.
And that also seems to work just the way it should.
Let's also give this a try on Android here starting a new game there and let's hope we don't win too
early yet.
That seems to work but there I actually can scroll.
So on Android this is actually not working correctly.
This list does not scroll the there.
So what's wrong and Android.
Now while it's it does scroll fine on ISIS for the scroll.
You nested in a view to scroll fine on Android as well make sure that the surrounding view actually
uses flex one.
So add this to the list style here which is the style applied to the view which is wrapped around the
scroll view.
With that added If we now try this again on Android
you'll now notice that now does this scroll lable as soon as you exceeds the boundaries of the screen.
And on our Web site it should still work as before.
And that being I w we can even scroll without it exceeding the boundaries.
That's just the default IOW behavior that you can balance such lists of it.
So now we have to scroll the whole list here with scroll view and map and it works on both Android and
I was.